Offseason:
During the 2024 offseason RamTech had its first successful offseason robot. The robot was made by the younger more recent members of the team and allowed for them to learn and make mistakes without the stress of messing up during the season. These young students needed to learn to CAD, manufacture, assemble, wire, and program the robot. While they did have access to mentors if they got stuck a majority of the robot was completely student made. This activity as a whole built a strong team that knows how to work together and acted as a starting point for students trying to get into FRC. 


Summercamp:
The RamTech Summer Camp is an integral part of RamTech needed to keep us running smoothly. There is an attendance of around 60 - 65 children yearly a number that has grown from our initial group in 2016. Younger attendees are put into the lego room and learn basic STEM concepts; they participate in educational conversations and lessons that help them get ahead of their peers. Older students are given the choice between VEX IQ, VEX, Drones, and RC cars. In VEX IQ and VEX they split up into teams and build their own robots before pitting them against each other. In Drones they learn how to pilot the drones and fly in simulated environments that mimic real life planes. In RC cars they learn how to maintain, modify, design, and drive their cars. 
We have a yearly profit of around $40,000 from the camp. We also allow in some campers in for free as we understand that a lack of money shouldn't be the reason that potential dies. In addition to the money earned by the program, the students work a paid internship to earn money for trips. Each student that participates as an intern earns $1,500 for their work and actual work experience. RamTech students also work outside of the internship as volunteers. These students work up to 150 hours during the 2 weeks and use these hours to gain scholarships. 

WIKI:
The RamTech Wiki is an invaluable resource for students  and members of FIRST everywhere. It offers information on where to buy materials, organization, design software's, teaches general physics concepts, tells you everything you need to know on basic mechanical systems, shows you how to use manufacturing tools and machines, teaches you how to program your robot, and even demonstrates how to test batteries. The wiki also includes instructional modules on SolidWorks, advanced mechanics, and even building a basic tank drive FRC chassis with video tutorials and materials lists included. 


About Us
Education
Summercamp
Inclusion
WIKI
Curriculum
Offseason
Sparktech


Missing for :

Summercamp
wiki
offseason
Sparktech


It's difficult to put sparktech into words, you'd have to witness footage and pictures to truly grasp what we do. The students in Kenya have incredibly limited resources, and Sparktech works to provide new opportunities like information which they don't have and resources which they can't obtain. None of the kids have personal computers at home, so they rely on the ones we ship to the school along with our speakers, cameras, generators, and more. The lessons are boundless, and we've had guests on the meetings such as Green Ridge National Laboratory material scientist Mark Zach.